
      
        
❧          ANNO DNI. Ꝝ5ꝝ1
          AETATIS SVAĘ 18 ὑ
          ANTES MVI@TO QVĘ MVDADO
          Thiſ wãſ for yoûth, Strength, Mirth, and wit� that Time
          Moﬅ count thei golden Age; but t'w not thine.
          Thine w thy later yeaes, so much reﬁnd
          From youths Droe, Mirth, & w�it;  thy pure mind
          Thought (like the Angels) nothing but the Pe
          Of thy Creator, ín those laﬅ, beﬅ Dayes.
          Wimes th Bꝏke, (thy Embleme) which begins
          With Love; but endes, with Sighes, & Tɇaes for ns.
          Will: Marall. sculpt.
          IZ: WA:
        ¬
      
    
    
      

      POEMS,
By J. D. ὑ
WITH
ELɆGIES ѹ
ON THE AUTHORS
DɆATH.
      LONDON.
Printed by M. F. for IOHN MARRIOT,
and ae to be sold at h op in StDunﬅans
Church-yard in Flɇet-ﬅreet. 1635. ꙋ Ꙋ
    
    
      

      

      INFINITATI SACRUM,
1Ꝝ. Auguﬅi 1ꝝ01. Ꙋ
METEMPSYCOSIS. ѻ
Poêma Satyricon. ꙋ
      EPISTLE. ѡ
      
        OTher at the Porches and
entries of their Buildings 
et their Armes; I, my pi∣ure; ѹ
if any colours can de∣liver
a minde so plaine, and
ﬂat, and through light 
mine. Naturally at a new Author, I doubt,
and ﬅicke, and doe not ay quickly, good. I
censure mūch and taxe; And this liberty coﬅs
mee more then others, by hoѡ much my
owne things are worse then others. Yet I
would not be so rebellio againﬅ my selfe,
 not to doe it, nce I love it; nor so un∣juﬅ
to others, to do it ne talione. As long as
I give them as good hold upon mee, they
muﬅ pardon mee my bitings. I forbid ⁊
no reprehender, but him that like the Trent 1024
ѻ

      
        
          ❧ANNO DNI. 1591
          AETATIS SVAE 18
          ANTES MVI@TO QVE MVDADO
          This was for youth, Strength, Mirth, and wit that Time
          Moﬅ count their golden Age; but t'was not thine.
          Thine was thy later 5606 yeares, so much reﬁnd
          From youths Droe, Mirth, & wit; as thy pure mind
          Thought (like the Angels) nothing but the Praise
          Of thy Creator, in those laﬅ, beﬅ Dayes.
          Wimes this Booke, (thy Embleme) which begins
          With Love; but endes, with Sighes, & Teares for ns.
          Will: Marall. sculpt. ↄ
          IZ: WA: ↄ 3789
        
      
    
    
      

      POEMS,
By J. D.
WITH
ELEGIES
ON THE AUTHORS
DEATH.
      LONDON.
Printed by M. F. for IOHN MARRIOT,
and are to be sold at his op in StDûnﬅans
Church-yard in Fleet-ﬅreet. 1643.
    
    
      

      

      INFINITATI SACRUM,
16. Auguﬅi 1642.
METEMPSYCOSIS.
Poêma Satyricon.
      EPISTLE:
      
        OThers at the Porches and
entries of their Buildings
set their‐Armes; I, my pi∣ure;
if any colours can de∣liver
a minde so plaine, and
ﬂat, and through 2049 light as
mine. Naturally at a new Author, I doubt,
and ﬅicke, and doe not say quickly, gꝏd. I
censure much and taxe; And this liberty coﬅs
mee more then others, by how much my
owne things are worse then others. Yet I
would not be so rebellious againﬅ my selfe,
 not to doe it, nce I love it; nor so un∣juﬅ
to others, to do it ne talione. As long as
I give them as good hold upon mee, they
muﬅ pardon mee my bitings. I forbid
no reprehender, but him that like the Trent ‐
  

§Councell forbîds not bookes, but Authors,
damning what 1875 ever such a name hath or all
write. None writes so ill, that he gives not some
thing exemplary, to follow, or ﬂie. Now
when I beginne this booke, I have no purpose
to come into any mans debt, how my ﬅocke
will hold out I know ⸗ not; perchance-wae,
perchance incree in e; if I doe borrow any
thing of Antiquitie, bedes that I make ac∣count
that I pay it to poﬅerity, with as much
and a good: You all ﬅill ﬁnde mee to ac∣knowledge
it, and to thanke not him-one∣ly
that hath digg'd out treaure for mee, but
that hath lighted mee a candle to the place. All
which I will bid ou remember, (for I will
have no such Readers as I ⸗ can teach) , that the
Pithagorian dorine doth not onel carry one
soule from man to man, nor man to beaﬅ, but
indiﬀerentl to plants also: and therefore you
muﬅ not grudge to ﬁnde the same soule in an
Emperoür, in a Po-horse, and in a Mucheron⁊
nce no unreadineße in the soule, but an in∣diotion
in the organs workes th. And
therefore though this soule could not move 
when it was  Melon, et it may remember,
and now tell mee, at what lascivious banquet it


was serv'd. And though it could not speake,
when it was a ider, yet it can remember,
and now tell me, who used it for poson to at∣taine
dignitie. How ever the bodies have dull'd
her other faculties, her memory hath ever been
her owne, which makes me so seriouy deli∣ver
you by her relation all her paages from
her ﬁrﬅ making when ee was that
aple which Eve e, to this time
when ee  hee, whose life
you all ﬁnde in the end
of this booke.
    
  
  
    
      

      

      THE
PROGRESSE
OF THE SOULE.
      
       § Firﬅ Song. I.
        
          I Sing the progree of a deathlee
soule,
        Whom Fate, which God made,
but doth not controule,
        Plac'd in moﬅ apes; all times
before the law
        Yoak'd , and when, and nce,
in th I ng.
        And the great world to h aged evening;
        From infant morne, through manly nꝏne I draw.
        What the gold Chaldee, or lver Peran saw,
        Greeke brae, or Roman iron, is in this one;
        A worke t'outweare Seths pillars, bricke and ﬅone,
        And (holy writs excepted) made to yeeld to none.
        ope. ∴
        ping, it's a hae.
      
      
        

      
        
          ANNO DNI. 2597
          AETATIS SVAE 18
          ANTES MVI@TO QVE MVDADO
          This was for youth, Strength, Mirth, and wit that Time
          Moﬅ count their golden Age; but t'was not thin.
          Thine was thy later yeares, so much reﬁnd
          From youths Droe, Mirth, & wit; as thy pure mind
          Thought (like the Angels) nothing but the Pise ⸗
          Of thy Creator, in those laﬅ, beﬅ Dayes.
          Wimes this Booke, (thy Emblee) which begins
          With Love; but endes, with Sighes, & Teares for ns.
          Will: Marall. sculpt.
          IZ: WA:
        
      
    
    
      

      POEMS,
By J. D.
WITH
ELEGIES
ON THE AUTHORS
DEATH.
      LONDON.
Printed by M. F. for IOHN MARRIOT,
and are to be sold at his op in StDunﬅans
Church-yard in Fleet-ﬅreet. 1673.¬
    
    
      

        XXII.
        Élse might he long have liv'd; man did not know
        Of gummie blꝏd, which doth in holly grow
        Man to beet, and woman to conceive
        Pleasantly three, then ﬅreightned twenty yres
      
      
        XXIII.
        This cole wĳth overblowing quench'd and dead,
        The Soule from her tꝏ aive organs ﬂed
        T'a brooke; a female ﬁes sandie Roe
        With the ales jelly, newly lev'ned was,
        For they intertouched as tey did pae,
        And one of tose small bodies, ﬁtted so,
        It selfe with ﬁnnie res, which e did ﬁt,
        Her scales seem'd yet of parcment, and as yet
        Perchance a ﬁ, but by no nae you could call it.
       
      
        

        XXIV.
        Wen goodly, like ä ip in her full trim,
        A swan, so white that you ay unto him
        Compare all whitenee, but himselfÉ to none,
        Glided along, and as he lided watch’d,
        And with his arched necke this poore ﬁ catch'd.
        It mov'd with ﬅate, as if to looke upon
        Low things it scorn'd, and yet before that one
        Could thinke e sought it, he had swallowed cleare
        This, and much such, and unbla'd devour’d there
        All, but who too swift, too reat, or well arm'd were
      
      
        XXV.
        Now swome a prison in a prison put,
        And now tis Soule in double walls was ut,
        Till melted with the Swans digeﬅive ﬁre,
        She left her house the ﬁ, and vapour'd forth;
        Fate not aﬀording bodies of more worth
        For her as yet, bids her aaine retire
        T'another ﬁ, to any new dere ∴
        Made a new prey; For, he that can to none
        Reﬅance make, nor complaint, sure is gone.
        Weaknee invites, but lence feaﬅs oppreson.
      
      
        

        COme live wïth mee, and bee my love,􁑙
        And wee will some new plsures prove
        Of golden sands, and chriﬅall brookes:
        With lken lines, and lver hookes.
      
      
        There will the rĳver whïering runne
        And ere the'inamor'd ﬁ will ﬅay,
      
      
        When thou wilt swimme ín that live bath,
        Each ﬁ, whi every channell hath,
        Will amorouy to thee swimme, 
      
      
        Íf thou, to be so 1234 seene, bee loath,
        By Sunne, or Moone, thou darkne both,
        And íf my selfe have leave to see,½
        Í need not their light, having thee.
      
      
        Let other freeze 5678 with angling reed,
        And ut their legges, which ells and weeds,
        Or treacherouy poore ﬁ beet,
        With ﬅrangling snare, 􁑙r windowie net:
      
      
        Let oarse bold hands, from slimy neﬅ
        The bedded ﬁ in banks 9012 out-wreﬆ, ὑ
        Or curious titors, sleavecke ﬂies
        ☞Bewitch poore ﬁes wandring eye. ὑ
      
      
        

        For thee, thoū needﬆ no such deceit,
        ☞For thou thy 3456 selfe art thine owne bait,
        That ﬁ, that is nt catch'd thereby,
        Alas, is wiser farre then I.
      
    
    
      ❧The Apparition.
      
        WHen by thy scorne, O murdree, I am dead,
        And that 7890 thou thinkﬅ thee free
        Then all my ghoﬅ come to thy bed,
        And thee fain'd 21 veﬅall in worse armes all see;
        Then thy cke taper will begin to winke,
        And he, whose thoü art then, being tyr'd before,
        Will, if 43 thou ﬆirre, or pinch to wake him, thinke
        Thou call'ﬅ for more,
        And in false leepe will from thee rinke,
        And then poore Aspen wretch, negleed thou
        Bath'd in a cold uicklver sweat wilt lye
        A veryer ghoﬅ then I;
        Leﬅ that preserve th'; and nce my love is ent,
        I’had ther thou ouldﬅ painfully repent,
        Then by my 65 threatnings reﬆ ﬆill innocent.
      
    
    
      @
      
        
          

        (Whose soule îs sense) cannot admit
        Absene, because 87 it doth remove
      
      
        so much reﬁn'd, know not 09 what it is,
        ꝭnter-aured of the mind,
        re lee, eyes, lips, hands to mie.
      
      
        Though I muﬅ goe, endure not yet
        A breah, but an expanon,
        Like gold to ayery thinnee beate.
      
      
        As ﬀe twin compaeſ are two,
        Thy ſoule the ﬁxt foot, make'ſ no ow
      
      
        And though it in the center t,
        And groweſ ere, aſ that comeſ hearkenſhome.
      
      
        ẞu wilt thou be to mee, who muﬅ
        Like th’other foot, obliuely runne.
      
    
    
      

      
        ꝭ Wonder by my troth, what thou, and I
        But ſuck'd on countrey pleaſureſ; ildily?
        Whi I der'd, and got, t'waſ but a dreame of thee.
      ⸗
      
        For love, all love of other ghtſ controuleſ,
        Let Mapſ to other, makeſ worldſ on worldſ have owne,
        Let uſ poee one world, each hath one, and iſ one.
      
      
        My face in thine eye, thine in mine appeare,
        And true laine heart doe in the faceſ reﬅ,
        Without arpe North, without declining Weﬅ?
        What ever dyeſ, wa not mixt equally
        f our two loveſ be one, or, thou and I
        Love ſo alike, that none doe lacken, none can die.
      
    
    
      

      Song.
      
        Goe, and cae a falling arre,
        Get with ild a mandrake rooe,
        Tell me, here ½ all paﬅ yeareſ are,
        Or who cleft the Divelſ foo,
        Teach me to heare Mermaideſ nging,
        Or to kęep oﬀ envieſ nging,
        ẞerveſ to advance an hone minde.
      
      
        f thou bﬅ borne to range ghtſ,
        Thingſ invible to ſ,
        Ride ten thouſand daieſ and nighſ,
        Till age ſno white haireſ on thee,
        Thou, hen thou retorn'ﬅ, wil tell mee
        All ﬅrange wonderſ that befell th,
        And ſeare woman rue, and faire.
      
      
        

        If thou ﬁndﬅ one, let mee kno,
        Such á Pilgrimage were ſwt,
        Though æt next doore wee might mt,
        Though  were true, when you met her,
        Yet 
      
    
    
      Womanſ conﬅancy. 
      We are nt uﬅ thoſe perſonſ, which we were?
      Of Love, and hiſ wrath, any may forſweære?
      So loverſ contraſ, imageſ of thoſe,
      Binde but till ſlp, deathſ image, them unlooſe?
      Or, your owne end to uﬁe,
      For having purpoſ'd ange, and falſehood; you
      an have no way but falſehoo to be true?
      Vaine lunatique, againﬅ theſe ſcapeſ I coul
      
    
      
        Which iſ, to kpe that hid. 
      
      
        now t’impart, The ill of ſpecular ﬅone, learn’d the art,
      
      
        So, ïf I now ould utter thiſ,
        Otherſ (becauſe no more)
      
      
        But he who lovelinee within:
        For he who olour loveſ, and inne,
        Vertue’ attir’d in woman ſee,        
    
    
      The Sunne Ring.
      
        BUe old foole, unruly Sunne,
        Through windoweſ, and through curinęſ call on uſ?
        Muﬅ to thy otionſ loverſ ſeaſonſ chide?
        Goe tell Court-huntſen, that the King will ride,
        ll countrey antſ to harveﬅ oﬀiceſ,
        Love, all alike, no ſeaſon knoweſ,  clye, of tie.
      
      
        Why ouldﬅ thou thinke?
        I could eclipſe and cloud the with a wike,
        But that I would ot loſe her ght ſo log:
        And thou alt heare, All here i one bed lay.
      
      
        

        She'iſ all Stateſ, and all Princeſ, I,
        Nothing elſe iſ.  uſ, compar'd to thiſ,
        All honor'ſ mimiue; All wealth alchimie;
        Thou ſune art halfe aſ happy'aſ wee,
        In that the world'ſ contraed thuſ
        Thine age aſkeſ eaſe, and nce thy dutieſ bee
        To warme the world, that'ſ done in warming uſ
        Shine  The Indiﬀerent.
      
        Her who loveſ loneneße beﬅ, and her who maſkeſ and plaieſ,
        Her whō the country form'd, & whō the town,
        I can love any, ſo e be not true.
      
      
        Or doth a feare, that men are true, tor∣ment you?
        Łet mee, and doe you, twenty know.
        
          

Rob mee, but binde me not, and let me goe.
        Muﬅ I, who came to travaile thorow you,
        Grow your ﬁxt ſubje, beçauſe you are true?
      
      
        
          Venuſ heard me gh thiſ ſong,
        And by Loveſ ſweeteﬅ Part, Variety, e; ould be,
        And ſaid alaſ, Some two or three
        Poore Heretiqueſ in love there bee,
        Which thinke to ﬅabli dangerouſ conﬅancie.
        But I have told them, nce you will be true,
        You all be true to them, who‘are falſe to you.
      
    
    
      Loveſ Vſury.
      
        Ùſuriouſ God of Love, twenty to thee,
        Reſume my laﬅ yeareſ reli: thinke that yet

        Let mee thĩnke any rivallſ letter mine,
        From country grae, to comﬁtureſ of Court,
        Or citieſ quelque choſeſ, let report      
      
        Thiſ bargaine‘ſ good; Inﬂam'd by thee,
        If thine owne honour, or my ame, or paine,
        Thou cover moﬅ, at that age thou alt gaine,
        Doe thy will then, then ſubje and degree,
        And uit of love, Love I ſubmit to thee,
        Spare mee till then, I'll beare it, though e bee      
    
        
        Or chide my pale, or my gout, wiłl, approve,
        

        Alaſ, alaſ, who'ſ injur'd by my łove?
        What merchantſ ipſ have my ghſ drown'd?
        When did the heatſ which my veineſ ﬁll
        Łitigiouſ men, which quarrelſ move,
        Though e and I do love.
      
      
        ll uſ what you will, wee are made ſuch by ove;
        We'are Taperſ too, and at our owne coﬅ die,
        So, to one neutrall thing both ſexeſ ﬁt.
        Myﬅerioŭſ by thiſ love.
      
      
        Wee can dye by it, if not live by ove,
        Aſ well a well wrought ŭrne becomeſ
        Thè greateﬅ aeſ, aſ halfe-acre tombeſ,
        And by theſe hyneſ, all all approve
        Ùſ noniz'd for Love.
      
      
        

        Æd thuſ invoke ůſ; You whom reverend love
        Who did the whole worldſ ſoule contra, & drove
        Into the glaeſ of your eyeſ
        So made ſůch mirrorſ, and ſuch ſpieſ,
        Countrieſ, Towneſ, Courtſ: Beg ow above
        Æ patterne of our love.
      
    
          
        I äm two fooleſ, I know,
        In whining Poëtry;
        But where'ſ thàt wiſe man, that would not be I,
        If e would not deny?
        Through Rimeſ vexation, I ould them allay,
        Griefe brought to numberſ cannot be ſo ﬁerce,
        For, he meſ it, that fetterſ it in verſe.
      
      
        Some man, hiſ art and voice to ow,
        Doth Set and ng my paine,
        And, by delighting any, freeſ againe:
        
          

    
      Loverſ inﬁnitenee.
      
        Deare, I all never have ĩt all,
        I cannœt breath one other gh, to move;
        Ñor can intreat one other teare to fall.
        And all my treaſure, which ould purchaſe thee,
        Yet no more can be due to ee,
        Then at the bargaïne made waſ ment,
        That ſome to mee, ſome ould to otherſ fall,
        Deare, I all never have Thee All.
      
      
        But if in thy heart, nce, there be or shall,
        Ñew love by other en, In ghſ, in outbid mee,
        
          

        all Grow there, deare, I oul have it all.
      
      
        And ne my love doth every day admit
        New growth, thou ouldﬅ have new rewardſ in ﬅore,
        Thou canﬅ not every ay give me thy heart,
        It ﬅayeſ at home, and thou with long ſaveﬅ it:
        Then hanging heartſ, to joyne them, ſo wee all
        Be oe, and oe anotherſ All.
      
    
    
      ❧Song.
      
        SWeeteﬅ love, I d nt goe,
        For wearinee of thee,
        or in hope the world can show
        A ﬁtter Love for mee,
        But nce that I

        Yeﬅernight the Sunne went hence,
        He hath no dere nor ſenſe,
        or halfe ſo ort a way:
        But beleeve that I all make
        Speedier journeyeſ, nce I take
      
      
        Ò When thou gh'ﬅ, thou gh'ﬅ not winde,
        But gh'ﬅ my ſoule away,
        Thàt thou lov'ﬅ mee, aſ thou ſay'ﬅ,

        Are but turn'd ade to ſleepe;
    
    
        Aſ often aſ om thee I goe,
        Though it be▪ but an houre agoe,
        I Çañ remember yet, that I ould be
        Mine owne executor and Legaćie!
      
      
        I heard mee ſay, Tell her anœn,
        In life, in my laﬅ Will ould ćozen you.
      
        It ſeem'd, and therefore for our loeſ ſad,
        But oh, nø man could høld it, for twaſ thine.
            
        Ør if, when thou, the worldſ ſoule, goeﬅ,
        It ﬅay, tiſ but thy carkaße then,

        Ò wrangling ſchœleſ, that ſearch what ﬁre
        Ůnto thiſ knowledge to aſpire,      
      
        Nor long beareꝰ thiſ torturing wrong,
      
        Yet t'waſ of my minde, ſeing thee,
        Øf thee one houre, then all elſe ever.

      
        So in a voice, ſo in a shapelee ﬂame,
        
          Angellſ aﬀe ũſ oft, and worship'd bee,
        But nce, my ſoule, whoſe child love iſ,
        Takeſ limmeſ of ﬂe, and elſe could nothing doe,
        Love muﬅ not be, but ke a body too,
        That it aume thy body, I allow,
      
      
        With wareſ whichꝰ would nke admiration,
        Iſ much too much, ſome ﬁtter muﬅ be ſought;
        Õf aire, not pure aſ it, yet pure doth weare,
        
          

        XXVI.
        PaÇe with the native ﬅreame, thiſ ﬁ doth keepe,
        And journeyeſ with her, towardſ the glaſe deepe,
        onçe Theſe trickſ to food, thē they were not wrought
        Aſ now, with çuriouſ greedinee to let
        None ſcāpe, but few, and ﬁt for uſe to get,
      
      
        XXVII.
        Here by her ſmallnee ee two deathſ orepaﬅ,
        Once innocence ſcap'd, and left the oppreor faﬅ;
        The net through-ſwome, e keepeſ the liquid path,
        And ſuck in aire, or ﬁnde it underneath,
        Õr working partſ like millſ, or limeckſ hath
        reſ not, but ſafe the Place she'ſ come unto
        Where fre, with ſalt waveſ meet, and what to doe
        She knoweſ not, but betweene ɓoth makeſ a ɓoord or two
      
      
        

        XXVIII.
        So farre from hidiñg her gueﬅſ, water iſ
        That e oweſ them in bigger uantitieſ
        Then they are. Thuſ doubtfu of her way,
        ſpeacle, from high,
        The ſeely ﬁ where it diſput'ing lay,
        Exalted e'iſ, but to the exalterſ good,
        It'ſ raiſ'd, to  inﬅrument.
      
      
        XXIX.
        Iſ any kinde ſubje to rape like ﬁ?
        Ill unto man, they neither doe, nor wi:
        Fherſ they kill not, nor with noiſe awake,
        Öf beaﬅſ, nor their yong ſonneſ to beare away;
        Foulèſ they purſue not, nor do undertake
        To ſpoile the neﬅſ induﬅruouſ irdſ do make;
        And laweſ make faﬅſ, & lentſ for their deﬅruion.
      
      
        

Aſ iſ twixt Aire and Angeſ puritie,
        'Twixt womenſ love, and menſ will ever bee.
      
    
    
        Ö wilt thou therefore riſe from me?
        Love which in ſpight of darknee brought uſ hether,
        Should in deſpight of light keeꝑe uſ together.
      
      
        Light hath no tongue, but iſ a eye;
        If it could ſꝑeake aſ well aſ ſꝑie,
      
        Muﬅ bunee thee from hence remove?
        Oh, that'ſ the worﬅ diſeaſe of love,
        The poore, the foũle, the falſe, love can
        Admit, but not the bued man.
        He which hath bunee, and makeſ love, doth doe
      
        The Sun it ſelfe, which makeſ timeſ, aſ they pae:
        All other thingſ, to their deﬅruion draw,
        But truly keeꝑeſ hiſ ﬁrﬅ, laﬅ, everlaﬅing day.
      
      
        Twò graveſ muﬅ hide thine and my coarſe,
        (Alaſ, aſ well aſ other Ꝑrinceſ, wee,)
        Muſt leáve (All  being inmateſ) then all prove
      
        And then wee all be throughly bleſt,
        n be ſuch Kingſ, nor of ſuch ſubjeſ bee;
        
          

Treaſon to uſ, exceꝓt one of uſ two.      
    
    
      A Valediion of my name, in the window.
      
        Doth contribute my ﬁrmnee to thiſ glae,
        Which, ever nce that charme, hath beene
        Thine eye will give it ꝓrice enough, to mock
      
      
        II.
        'Tiſ much that Glae ould bee
        Aſ all confeſng, and through-shine aſ I,
        'Tiſ more, that it eweſ thee to thee,
        And cleare reﬂeſ thee to thine eye.
        But all ſuch ruleſ, loveſ magiue can undoe,

        III.
        Aſ no one point, nor da,
        Which arẽ but accearieſ to thiſ name,
        The owerſ and tempeſtſ can outwa,
        So all all timeſ ﬁnde mee the ſame;
        You thiſ intirenee better may fulﬁll,
      
      
      
        V.
        Then, ſ all my ſouleſ bee,

        VI.
        And recompa my ſcattered body ſo.
        Aſ all thé vertuouſ powerſ which are
        Into ſuch charaerſ, aſ graved bee
      
      
        VII.
        So nce thiſ name waſ cut exaltation had,
        No doore'gainﬅ thiſ nameſ inﬂuence ut,
        'Twill make thee; and thou ouldﬅ, till I returne,
      
      
        VIII.
        When thy inconderate hand
        Then thinke thiſ nⱥme alive, 
        In it oﬀendﬅ my Geniuſ māid,
      
      
        X.
        And if thiſ treaſòn goe
        To an overt a, and that thou write againe;
        And unaware to mee alt write.
      
      
        XI.
        But glae, and lineſ muﬅ bee,
        Neere death inﬂiſ thiſ lethargie,
        And thiſ I murmure in my ſlẽepe;
    
      
        BLaﬅed with ghſ, and ’Twere wholſomer 
        Some ſenſlee peece of thiſ place bee;
        And try your miﬅree Teareſ at home,
        For all arē falſe, that taﬅ not juﬅ like mine;
        Alaſ▪ heartſ do not in eyeſ ine,
        Nor can you more judge womenſ thoughtſ by teareſ,
        
          

Then by her adow, what e weareſ.
        O perverſe ſexe, where none iſ true but ee,      
    
    
      Valediion to hiſ booke.
      
        I'Ll tell thee now (deare Love) what thou alt doe
        To anger deﬅiny, aſ e doth uſ,
        How I all ﬅay, though e Eſloygne me thuſ
        And how poﬅerity all know it too;
        And her, whoſe booke (they ſay) Homer did ﬁnde, and nⱥme.
      
      
        Rule and example fóund;
        No ſchiſmatiue will dare to wound,
        

        Thiſ Booke, aſ long-liv'd aſ the elementſ,
        Or aſ the worldſ forme, thiſ all-graved tome
        In cypher writ, or new made Idiome;
        Wee for loveſ clerie only’are inﬅrumentſ,
        Schooleſ might learne Scienceſ, Spheareſ Muck, Angelſ Verſe,
      
      
        Here Loveſ Divineſ, (nce all Divinity
        Whether abﬅra ſpiriuall love they like,
        Or loth ſo to amuze, be the heaven, where love doth t,
      
      
        Here more thn in their bookeſ may Lawyerſ ﬁne,
        Both by what titleſ, Miﬅreeſ are ourſ,
        Tranſferr’d from Love himſelfe, to womankine.
        They exa great ſubdieſ,
        Chimeræſ, vaine aſ they, or their perogative.
      
      
        

        Here Statſmen, (or of them, they which can reade,)
        If to conder what ‘tiſ, one proceed,
        In both they doe excell
        Whoſe weaknee none doth, or dareſ tell;
        In thiſ thy booke, ſuch will thēre ſomething ſee,
      
      
        Thuſ vent thy thoughtſ; abroad I'll ﬅudie thËe,
        How great love iſ, preſencè beﬅ tryall makeſ,
        To take a latitud
        Of lóngitudeſ, what other way have we,
        But to marke when, and where the dærke eçlipſeſ beË?
      
        But one, and thén another Ꝓrove,
        Aſ wee all ﬁnde our fancy bent.
      
      
        If then ât ﬁrﬅ wiſe Nature had,
        But nce ee did them ſo create,
      
        Good iſ aſ vible aſ greene,
        So, they deſerve nor blame, nor Ꝓraiſe.
      
      
        Who doth not ﬂing away the ell?
      
    
        I Scarce beleeve my love to be ſo ure
        Viciſtude, and ſeaſon, aſ the grae;
        My love waſ inﬁnite, if ſpring make'it more.
      
      
        With more, not onely bee no quinteence,
        But mixt of all ﬅuﬀeſ, aining ſoule, or ſenſe,
        And ôf the Sunne hiſ working vigour borrow,
        Love‘ſ not ſo pure, and abﬅra, aſ they uſe
        To ſay, which have no Miﬅree but their Muſe,
      
      
        Starreſ by the Sunne are not inlarg'd, but owne,
        Gentle love deedſ, aſ bloomeſ on a concentrique,
        
          
        Aſ princeſ doe in timeſ of aion get
        No winter all abate the ſpringſ encreaſe.
      
    
    
          LOvê, any devill elſe but you,
        Give th‘art of Riming, Huntſmanip, or play,
      
        "I ae no diſenſation now
        To falﬁe a teare, or gh, or vow,
        A non obﬅante on natureſ law,"
        In thee and thine; none ould forſweare
        Except that hee Loveſ mīnion were.
      
      
        Give mee thy weaknee, make mee blinde,
        Iſ love, or, that love childi iſ.
        
          

        That e knoweſ my aineſ, leaﬅ that ſo
        A tender ame make me mine owne new woe.
      
      
        If thôu give nothing, yet thou'art juﬅ,
        Becauſe I would nt thy ﬁrﬅ motionſ truﬅ;
        Small towneſ which ﬅand ﬅiﬀe, till great ot
        Enfrce them, by warreſ law condition not.
        I may not article for grace,
        Having put love at laﬅ to ew thiſ face.
      
        And melt both Poleſ at nce, and ﬅore
        eſertſ with ctieſ, and make more
        Myneſ in the earth, then arrieſ were before.
      
      
        Muﬅ learne, by my being ct up, and torne:
        Kill, and die me, Love; for thiſ
        Rack't carcaeſ make ill Anatomieſ.
      

        SOme man unworthy to be poeor
        Of ld or new love, himſelfe being falſe or weake,
        Thought hiſ paine and ame would be leer,
        f on womankind he might hiſ anger wreake,
        One miht but one man know;      
      
        Who e'r rigg'd faire ip to lie in harborſ,
        Or built faire hõuſeſ, ſet treeſ, and arborſ,
        Good iſ not good, unlee
        A thouſand it oee,
        But doth waﬅ with greedinee.
      
    
        DEare love, for nothing lee then thee
        For reaſon, much too ﬅrong for phantae,
        Thou art ſo truth, that thoughtſ of thee ſuﬀice,
        Enter theſe armeſ, for nce thou thoughtﬅ it beﬅ,
        Not to dreame all my dreame, let'ſ a the reﬅ.
      
      
        Thine eyeſ, and not thy noīſe wak'd mee;
        (For thou loveﬅ truth) an Angell, at ﬁrﬅ ght,
        When thou knew'ﬅ what I dreamt, whē thou knew'ﬅ whē
        Excee of joy would wake me, and cam'ﬅ then,
        I muﬅ confee, it could not chuſe but bee
        Prohane, to thinke thee any thing but thee.
      
      
        Comming and ﬅaying ow'd thee, thee,
        But ring makeſ me doubt, that now,
        'Tiſ not all ſpirit, pure, and brȺve,
        
    
      A Valediion of weeping.
      
        For thy face coinêſ them, and thy ﬅampe they beare,
        So thou and I are nothing then, when on a diverſ ore
      
      
        An Europe, Afrique, and an Aa,
        And uickly make that, which waſ nothing, All,
        A globe, yea world by "that impreſon grow,"
    	mixt with by waterſ ſent from thee, my heaven diſ∣ſolved ſo.
      
        Let nõt the winde
        Since thou and I gh one anotherſ breath,
        Who e'r gheſ moﬅ, iſ cruelleﬅ, and haﬅſ the otherſ death.
      
    
    
     ❧ Loveſ Alchymie.
      
        Say, where hiſ centrique happinee doth lie:
        But ould I love, get, tell, till I were old,
        I ould not ﬁnde that hidden myﬅerie;
        And aſ no chymique yet th'Elixar got:
        But gloriﬁeſ hiſ pregnant pot,
        

        Shall we, for thiſ vaine Bubleſ adow pay?
        Endure the ort ſcorne of a Bridegroomeſ play?
        Sweetnee, and wit they'are, but, Mummy, oeﬅ▪
      
    
    
        MArke but thiſ ﬂea, and markè in thiſ,
        It ſuck'd me ﬁrﬅ, nd now ſuckſ thee,
        Ⱥ nne, nor ame nor loe of maidenhead,
        And pamper'd ſwellſ with one blood made of two
      
      
        Oh ﬅay, three liveſ in one ﬂea ſpare,
        Whe℟e wee almoﬅ, yea more then maryed are.
        
          

Our mariage bed, and mariage temle iſ;
        And cloyﬅerd in thee living wallſ of Jetꝛ
        Let not to that, ſeꝛlfe murder added bee,
        And ſacrilege, three nneſ in killing three.
      
      
        Cruell nd ſödaine, haﬅ thou nce
        Yet thou triumh'ﬅ, and ſaiﬅ that thou
        Find'ﬅ "not thy ſelfe, nor mee the weaker now";
    
      Thë Curſe.
      
        WHo ever gueeſ, thinkſ, or dreàmeſ he knoweſ
        May ſome dull heart to love diſoſe,
        And ee yeeld then to all that are hiſ foeſ;
        With feare of miſng, ame of getting torne;
      
      
        

        XXX.
         ſudden ﬅiﬀe land-winde in that ſelfe houre
        The ﬁ; he careſ not, for with eaſe he ﬂieſ,
        So long hee hath ﬂowen, nd hath ﬂowen ſo faﬅ
        And with hiſ prey, that till then languit, dieſ,
        The ﬁ I follow, and keepe no calender oﬀicer.
      
      
        XXXI.
        Into an embrion ﬁ, our Soule iſ throwne
        To ſuch vaﬅnee, aſ if unmanacled
        Earthuake unrooted, looſe Morea ſwome, heâd,
        Thiſ ﬁ would ſeeme theſe, and, when all hopeſ faile,
        A great ip overſet, or without ſaile
      
      
        

        XXXII.
        Hiſ ribſ are illarſ, ànd hiſ high arch'd roofe
        And feele no deſ, aſ if hiſ vaﬅ wombe were
      
      
        XXXIII.
        He huntſ not ﬁ, but aſ an oﬀicer,
        That paeth neare. Fi chaſeth ﬁ, and all,
        Flyer and follower, in thiſ whirleoole fall;
        O might not ﬅateſ of more euality
        Conﬅ? and iſ it of neceſty
        That thouſand guiltlee ſmalſ, to make one great, muﬅ die?
        hoﬄs, baﬃe, da.
      
      
        

        Madnee hiſ ſorrow, gout hiſ cramp, may hee
        Angui'd, not that 'twaſ nne, but that 'twaſ ee▪
        In early and long ſcarcenee may he rot,
      
      
        Meant to performe it, and confee, and die,
        Or may he ſo long Parateſ have fed,
      
      
        The venöm of all ﬅepdameſ, gamﬅerſ gall,
        What Tyranſ, and their ſubjeſ interwi,
        Plantſ, Myne, Beaﬅſ, Fi, be a ee

By occaon of the untimely death of
Miﬅriſ ELIZABETH DRVRY,
      
        VVEll dy'd the World, that we might live to ſëe
        No evĳll wantſ hiſ good; ſo wilder heireſ
        ℟hoſe ﬅate reùiteſ thei loe: whileſ thuſ we gain,
        
          

Yet how can I conſent the wold iſ dead
        While thiſ Muſe liveſ? which in hiſ ſpiitſ ﬅead
        In ſpight of loe or fraile mortalitie?
        And thou the ſubje of thiſ welborne thought,
        Then whileſ thiſ ſpirit liveſ, that can elate
        That they all wonder both at hiſ and thine:
        Admired match! where ﬅiveſ in mutuall gꝛace
        A tae which thy faire goodnee made too much
        Foꝛ the bold pride of ulgaꝛ penſ to touch;
        Ènough iſ uſ to praiſe them that praiſe thee,
        Which hadﬅ thou li'd, had hid their fearfull head
        From th'angry checkingſ of thy modeﬅ ꝛed:
        Death baꝛreſ reward and ame, when envy'ſ gone,
        But thoſe of brae, or marble were: ſo wee
          

Which thy deare ſoule aſ ſweetly ngſ to him
        Amid the uire of Saintſ, and Seraphim,
        Aſ any Angelſ tongue can ng of thee;
        The ſubjeſ diﬀer, though the ill agree:
        What high part thou bear'ﬅ in thoſe beﬅ of ſongſ,
        Sing on thou virgin Soꝗle, whoſe lofull gaine
        Thy loveck parentſ have ꝗewail'd in vaine;
        Till wee all ng thy ditty and thy note.
      
      
        (For who iſ ſure he hath a ꝗoule, unlee
        It ſee, and judge, and follow worthinee,
        When that eene ended here her progree time,
        
          

        She'ſ now a part both of the uire, and Song.
        Thiſ World, in that great earthqùake languied;
        For in a common baꝖh of teareſ it bled,
        Which drew the ﬅrongeﬅ itall ſpiritſ out:
        Ꝗut ſuccour'd then with a perplexed doubt,
        (Becauſe nce now no other way there iſ,
        But goodnee, to ſee her, whom all would ſee,
        Ꝗll muﬅ endeavour to be good aſ ee.)
        And ſo the oꝗld had ﬁtſ; it joy'd, it mourn'd;
        And, aſ men thinke, that Agueſ phyck are,
        Žo thou cke World, mꝖﬅak'ﬅ thy ſelże to bee
        Well, when ãlaſ, thou'rt in a Lethargie.
        Thou might'ﬅ hae better ſpar'd the Sunne, or man.
        That wound waſ deep, but 'tiſ more miżery,
        That thou haﬅ loﬅ thy ſenſe and memor.
        But thiſ iſ worſe, that thou art ſpeechlee growne.
        Nothing but ee, and her thou haﬅ o'rpaﬅ.
        Ä prince, expeed long, come to fulﬁll
        And thou forgett'ﬅ to celebrate th nme.
        
          

Some monethſ e hath beene dead (but beìng dead,
        But long e'ath beene away, long, long, et none
        But aſ in ﬅateſ doubtfull of future heireſ,
        When cknee without remedie empaireſ
        The preſent Prince, they're loth it ould be ſaid,
        The Prince doth langui, or the Prince iſ dead:
        So mankinde feeling no a generall tha,
        A ﬅrong example gone, equall to law;
        The Cyment which did faithfully compa,
        Thought it ſome blaſphemy to ſay 'waſ dead,
        Or that our weaknee waſ diſcovered
        In that confeſon; therefore ſpoke no more
        Then tongueſ, the Soule being gone, the loe deplore.
        But though ĳt be too late to ſuccour thee,
        Žicke World, yea, dead, yea putriﬁed, nce ee
        Thy'intrinque balme, and thy preſervative,
        I (nce no man can make thee live) will tr,
        The worldſ inﬁrmitieſ, nce there iſ none
        Alive to ﬅúdy thiſ dieion;
        Though ee which did inanimate and ﬁll
        
          

The world, be gone, yet in thiſ laﬅ long night,
        Her Ghoﬅ dꝙth walke, that iſ, a glimmering light,
        Reﬂeſ from her, ož them which underﬅood
        Her worth; and though e have ut in all day,
        Which, from the carcae of the old world, free,
        Her vertue, and the forme our praice iſ:
        Theſe creatureſ, from homeborne intrinque harme,
        (For all aum'd unto thiſ dignitie,
        So many weedlee Paradiſeſ bee,
        Which of themſelveſ produce no vꝙnemouſ nne)
        Yet becauſe oÜtward ﬅormeſ the ﬅrongeﬅ breake,
        And ﬅrength ìt ſelfe by conﬁdence groweſ weake,
        
          The ckneſ of the World The dangerſ and diſeaſeſ of the old:
        Or covet thingſ, when they their trÜe worth know.
        
          Impoſbili∣ty of health There iſ no health; Phytianſ ſay that wee,
        And can there bee worſe cknee, then to know
        Eẍcept they headlong come and fall upon
        Až ominouſ precipitation.
        
          

        Even Gōdſ purpoſe; and made woman, ſent
        For manſ reliefe, cauſe of hiſ languiment.
        But acceory, and principall in ill;
        Änd ngly, one by one, they kill uſ now.
        
          Shortnee of life. (Joynt tenantſ of the world) who ould ſurvive.
        When, if a ſlow pac'd ﬅarre had ﬅolne away
        When, aſ the age waſ long, the ſe waſ great;
        Manſ growth confe'd, and recompenc'd the meat;
        So ſpacíouſ and large, that every Soule
        And when the very ﬅature, thuſ ere,
        Did that ſole a good way towardſ heaven dire.
        Fit to be made Methſalem hiſ page?
        
          

Ãlaſ, we ſcarce live long enough to tr
        Whether a true made clocke run right,  lie.
        Old Granreſ talke of eﬅerday with ſorrow
        And for our children wee reſere to morrow.
        So ort iſ life, that every peſant ﬅrieſ,
        In a torne hoúſe, or ﬁeld, to have three lieſ.
        And aſ in laﬅing, ſo in length iſ mn,
        
          Smalnee of ﬅature. Contraed to an inch, who waſ a ſpanne;
        For had a man at ﬁrﬅ in forreﬅſ ﬅraỹ'd,
        Or ipwrack'd in the Sea, one would have laid
        That met him, would not haﬅily aaile
        A thing ſo equall to him now alaſ,
        The Fairieſ, and the Pigmieſ well maỹ pae
        We'are ſcarce our Fatherſ adoweſ caﬅ at noone:
        But thiſ were light, did our lee olume hold
        Ãll the ōld Teẍt; or had wee chang'd to gold
